This week's lab, let you try out
fine-tuning using
PEFT with LoRA for
yourself by improving the
summarization ability
of the Flan-T5 model.
My colleague Chris, is going to
walk you through this
week's notebook.
I'll pass you over to him.
Hey, thanks, Shelby.
Now, let's take a look at Lab 2.
In Lab 2, you will
get hands-on with
full fine-tuning and
Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning,
also called PEFT with
prompt instructions.
You will tune the Flan-T5
model further with
your own specific prompts
for your specific
summarization task.
Let's jump right
into the notebook.
Lab 2, we are going to
actually fine-tune a model.
Lab 1, we were doing
the zero-shot inference,
the in-context learning.
Now we are actually
going to modify
the weights of our
language model,
specific to our
summarization task
and specific to our dataset.
Real quick, just double-check
that you have the eight CPU,
32 gigabyte, that's the
instance type here.
This is an AWS instance type
from SageMaker, ml.m5.2xl.
Let's do this pip installs.
While the pip installs
are happening,
let me explain torch and
torchdata the same as Lab
1 where we are going
to use PyTorch,
we are then pip installing
the torchdata library to
help with the PyTorch
data loading.
There's also a library
called evaluates,
and this is what we're
going to use with
our rouge score to
calculate rouge.
You learned about rouge in
the lessons as a way
to measure how well
does a summary
encapsulate what was in
the original conversation
or the original text.
Now, these two libraries,
LoRA and PEFT,
you heard about a
bit in the lessons.
This is what we will use to
do the parameter
efficient fine-tuning.
Now, I'm going to do
some imports here from
those pip installs.
If you do see this,
sometimes this clean data
in minutes thing shows up here,
you don't need this for the lab.
If you see it, I think this
comes up whenever
we import pandas,
just click the "X"
and click "Don't Show
Again" because we're not
using that part of SageMaker.
Once again, we have the
AutoModelForSeq2Seq.
This is what's going
to give us access to
Flan-T5 through the
transformers python library,
the tokenizer, we use
generation config in
the previous lab.
Now we're going to
see two new classes,
one called TrainingArguments,
one called Trainer.
These are all from transformers,
these are always we can use
that simplifies our code when
we're trying to train
our language model
or fine-tune our language model.
We see that we are going to
import PyTorch and the evaluate,
and we will use I believe
pandas and numpy later on.
Let's load the dataset just
like we did in the first lab.
Let's load the model
just like we did in
the first lab and the tokenizer,
and this is called
the original model and this
will be useful later when we
compare all the different
fine-tuning strategies
to the original model
that is not fine-tuned.
Here is a convenience
function that
prints out all of the parameters
that are in the model and
specifically the
trainable parameters.
This will become useful
when we introduce
the PEFT version of
the model which does
not train all of the parameters.
Here we see there are
approximately 250
million parameters
being trained when we do
the full fine-tuning,
which is the first part of
this lab where we
full fine-tune.
The second part of the
lab will be where we do
the parameter
efficient fine-tuning
specifically with LoRA,
where we will only train
very small number.
So keep that in mind,
this is a kind of a
lot of messy code but
it's pretty useful
for the comparison.
Just like we did
in the first lab,
we're going to show
a sample input.
We're going to show
the human baseline.
We're going to do the zero shot.
This is not one shot,
not few shot, we're pass
that, that was Lab 1.
Here, we are trying to
gets the point where
one simple call
into our model can
give us a decent summary without
having to pass in
the one shot and
few shot examples,
that's the goal.
The first way that we're
going to do is we are going
to do full fine-tuning.
Here is a convenience
function that can tokenize
and wrap our dataset
in a prompt.
As we saw in the first
lab where we had
a prompt that said summarize
the following conversation,
and then we're actually going
to give it the dialogue,
and then we're going
to end the prompt
with those summary colon.
This function will let us map
over all of the elements of
our dataset and convert
them into prompts
with instruction.
That's what we're
going to do here,
which is full fine-tuning
with instruction prompts.
Here, we're just going to
take a sample just to keep
the resource requirements
law for this particular lab,
speed things up a little bit.
Let's take a look at the size.
Here we have about 125
training examples.
We're going to use
five for validation.
15 to actually do
our holdout test later
on when we compare.
We're going to fine tune with
the training and we're going to
validate with the validation.
Then when all of
that said and done,
we're then going to use the
15 test examples to then
compare the different strategies
for fine-tuning
with instruction.
Here we see training
arguments and we
see some defaults here
for the learning rate.
We see some pretty
low values for
the max steps and the
number of the epochs.
That's because we
do want to try to
minimize the amount of
compute that's
needed for this lab.
If you have more time,
you can certainly change
these values and bump them
up to maybe five epochs,
maybe max steps 100.
In a bit, I'll show
you how we actually
work around that.
We have trained offline
a much larger model with
much higher max steps and
training epochs and in a bit,
we will actually pull that
in and then continue from there.
But this is what the
code looks like.
Here's the training dataset,
there's the evaluation
validation dataset,
here's where we call train.
Actually let me just do Shift
Enter, get this started.
This will take a few minutes,
even with the low max
steps and the low epochs,
this still does take
a few minutes to run.
Then here's that step
where we actually pull
in from the cloud
objects storage,
a model that we
trained outside of
this lab that is a
little bit better.
So we'll actually
start with that.
Let's give the train a
few minutes to complete.
What we're doing here is we
are actually
instruction fine-tuning
our Flan-T5 language model with
our specific dataset on
a very specific
summarization task.
Then later we'll see how
the ROUGE metric
compares between
the original model and
the instruction fine-tune
model that we have here.
Let's pull in that model from
S3 object storage that we
trained offline that's
a little bit better accuracy and
lower loss that we were able to
train for longer outside
of this specific lab.
I do want to keep an eye
on the size of this model.
This is a fully fine-tuned
instruction model,
and you'll see it's
close to one gigabyte,
and that will come in handy
later when we
compare it to PEFT,
which is on the order
of 10 megabytes.
Here we see 945 megabytes,
so we pulled that
model down into
a directory here called flan
dialogue summary checkpoint.
Now we're going to load
that instruction model,
so now this becomes
our new model that we
are then going to use to
compare here in a bit.
Now that we've loaded what
we're calling instruct model,
let's actually try from
our test dataset
using the human eye,
let's qualitatively test
and see how does this look.
The baseline summary Person
1 teaches Person 2 how to
upgrade in Person 2's system.
The original model without
any instruction fine-tuning,
just zero-shot.
This time it's
giving us Person 1,
you'd like to upgrade
your computer, Person 2,
you'd like to upgrade your
computer, so not very good.
The instruction fine tune
model that we just got done
training is Person 1
suggests Person 2 should
upgrade their system,
hardware, and CD ROM,
Person 2 thinks
that's a great idea.
That's qualitatively,
that's just looking.
Now, we only took a
look at one example,
but this is why we
have quantitative techniques
to do this comparison,
to do the evaluation.
Specifically, let's load
ROUGE and we're going
to take a look,
I think we're just going to
do maybe the first 10 here,
and let's compare them.
Let's take the first 10
from our test dataset.
We will run them through
these conversations,
through both the original
Flan-T5 model as well as
the instruction fine-tuned model
that we trained up above.
Here, of course, we're
going to wrap it in a
prompt similar to what
we used to train.
Then let's see how it did.
This is qualitatively taking
a look at them side-by-side.
Let's compare the
ROUGE metrics for
both the original Flan-T5 and
the instruction fine-tune
model that we tuned up above.
Here we see that the instruction
fine-tuned model score
is much higher on
the ROUGE evaluation metric
than the original Flan-T5 model.
This is showing that
with a little bit of
fine-tuning using our dataset
and a specific prompt,
we were actually able to
improve the ROUGE metric.
One other thing that we did
offline was we did this much
longer with a much
larger test dataset.
It wasn't just the 10
or the 15 examples,
this actually was
the full dataset,
and let's take a look.
That's what this file is.
The CSV file that came
along in this data
directory with this lab.
Here we see with a
much larger dataset,
the scores are still
pretty similar,
where we're getting
close to double,
not quite double in some cases,
but pretty significant
improvement
upon the original Flan-T5.
Here we see the percentage
improvements specifically.
If we actually do
the calculation,
we see rouge1 is 18% higher,
rouge2 10%, rougeL 13,
rougeLsum 13.7 as well.
Now let's get into parameter
efficient fine-tuning.
This is one of my
favorite topics.
This makes such a
big difference,
especially when
you're constrained by
how much compute
resources that you have,
you can lower the footprint
both memory, disk, GPU, CPU,
all of the resources
can be reduced
just by introducing PEFT into
your fine-tuning process.
In the lessons you
learned about LoRA,
you learned about the rank.
Here we're going to
choose rank of 32,
which is actually
relatively high.
But we are just
starting with that.
Here it's the SEQ_2_SEQ_LM,
this is FLAN-T5.
With just a few extra
lines of code here to
configure our LoRA fine-tuning.
Then here we see we're
only going to train
1.4 percent of the
trainable model parameters.
In a lot of cases
you can fine-tune
very large models
on a single GPU.
Here's some more of those
training arguments.
This is really back to
the original hugging
face training
and training arguments,
except instead of using
just the regular model,
we are actually using
the PEFT model.
Here this is a convenience
function offered by
the PEFT library and we
give it the original model,
which is the FLAN-T5.
We give it the LoRA
configuration which
we defined above
with the Rank 32.
We say get me a PEFT
version of that model.
That's what comes
out as 1.4 percent.
Now we do the
training arguments.
Again, small number of steps,
small number of epochs here.
We do have a version that
was trained offline.
That's a little bit
better than the one
that is in this
lab specifically,
and that's what we're going
to download here in a sec.
Let's do that.
Here's the other model that was
stored in S3 cloud storage.
Now we see this is
only 14 megabytes.
These are called the PEFT
adapters or LoRA adopters.
These get merged or combined
with the original LLM.
When you go to actually
serve this model,
which we will hear in a bit,
you have to take the
original LLM and then merge
in this LoRA PEFT adapter.
These are much smaller and
you can reuse the same base
LLM and swap in different
PEFT adapters when needed.
Now that we have the PEFT
adapter copied down from S3,
we're going to merge that
with the original LLM,
which is FLAN-T5 and use
that to actually
perform summarization.
Now one thing to call
out that's not entirely
obvious is that when we do this,
I can actually set the
is_trainable flag to false.
By setting the is_trainable
flag to false,
we are telling PyTorch
that we're not
interested in
training this model.
All we're interested in doing is
the forward pass just
to get the summaries.
This is significant
because we can tell
PyTorch to not load
any of the update
portions of these
operators and to
basically minimize the footprint
needed to just perform the
inference with this model.
This is a pretty neat flag.
This was actually just
introduced recently
into the PEFT model at
the time of this lab.
I wanted to show it here
because this is a
pattern that you
want to try to find when you're
doing your own modeling.
When you know that
you're ready to
deploy the model for inference,
there are usually ways
that you can hint
to the framework,
such as PyTorch that you're
not going to be training.
This can then further reduce
the resources needed to
make these predictions.
Here, just to emphasize it,
I do print out the number
of trainable parameters.
Keep in mind at
this point we are
only planning to do inference,
and let's move on to that.
Zero percent of these
trainable parameters.
Here, we're going to
build some sample prompts
from our test data set.
We're just going
to pick something
randomly here,
essentially Index 200.
We're going to see the
instruction model. Got it.
Mostly right I think,
the PEFT model
gets a little bit,
starts to find a little
bit more nuance here.
But really, as we'll see
qualitatively when we
run the rouge metrics.
Here we're going to compare
the human baseline to
the original FLAN-T5 to the
instruction full fine-tuned,
and then to the PEFT fine-tuned.
For the most part,
just glancing here,
it looks like these
are pretty similar.
But let's take a look
at the rouge metrics
and see what's going on.
Here we see the
instruction fine-tuned was
a pretty drastic improvement
over the original FLAN-T5.
We see that the PEFT model
does suffer a little bit
of a degradation from
the full fine-tuned.
It's pretty close in some cases.
It's not too bad.
But we use much less
resources during fine-tuning,
than we would have if we
did the full instruction.
You can imagine this is only
just a few thousand samples,
but you can imagine at scale
how this really can save you
tons of compute
resources and time by
using PEFT by looking
at the larger data set.
Up above I was just looking
at maybe 10, 15 examples.
Here we see larger.
Looks like I think I
have it here rouge one,
PEFT loses about one to maybe
1.7 percent across all for
of these rouge metrics.
That's not bad relative to
the savings that you
get when you use PEFT.